---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection 6"
date:   2022-09-27 18:21:49 -0400
categories: 
---

This week, I read a paper called “Computational historiography: Data mining in a century of classic journals”. This paper takes a somewhat broad-strokes approach to discussing various applications of computing in the humanities, with several different tests being done. 
The most interesting test, in my opinion, was a test done on topic frequency over time in a specific historical journal called the Journal of Roman Studies. The data, which was backed by a very clean visualization, claims that, “Physical descriptions of sites dominate the earlier 20th century, while recent decades have focused on social and economic history”. I found this way of analyzing texts to be incredibly interesting: news, journals and other publications have a responsibility to curate their content to their audience, so when we observe change in content over time, we can conclude that the audience and their demands change over time as well. I would be very interested to see similar analysis applied in other fields, specifically the magazine space. Earlier this year, I reviewed a project called Robots Reading Vogue, which conducted similar analysis on the covers of vogue issues. I would be interested to see if the Robots Reading Vogue project could expand further on the actual content in the magazine and how it has changed, and further making inferences about how pop culture and society have changed together.
Another part of the analysis I found interesting was the comparison of topic frequency in different languages. The analysis compared two different magazines, one in English and one in German, and the amount of certain topics appeared in their discussions. One bit I found interesting was that it seems women are spoken about a lot in the English magazine as opposed to the German one, where it seems femininity is rarely discussed. I will stop myself from making assumptions about cultures because I know very little, but I’m curious to learn more and see if I could understand why that discrepancy exists. It also seems as though the discussion of women in the English magazine has risen considerably, which would seem to follow from events such as the women's rights movement. Analyzing the trends was an interesting thought experiment and I would love to see more information on the topic. 


