---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection 7"
date:   2022-11-30 18:21:49 -0400
categories: 
---

This week’s topic was Data Visualization, and reading wise, I read an article about Japanese internment camps and then saw a very interesting visualization created by researchers at Yale to illustrate the scope and severity of internment camps. 
I found this visualization to be fascinating because of how user friendly it was and the depth of content it offered. The visualization loaded fast, was easy to navigate by clicking and dragging, and the use of color wass both visually appealing and conveyed the severity of the issue by using the color red, a color often associated with turmoil and death. Drilling down on a location was as easy as clicking on it, and a helpful synopsis was provided in the bottom left hand side of the map. I felt that looking at this site side by side with the NYTimes article was very helpful as it helped me visualize what I was reading.
My favorite part of this visualization was the ability to click on a location and not only have a succinct description of the internment camp or assembly center at that location, but clickable links that offered primary sources, pictures and other materials that trace back to that location. This feature allows for the user to have a truly immersive experience and should their curiosity be piqued, research further into the topic. 
This visualization reminded me of a time in high school where I visited the Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington, DC. I would say that the museum is the best and most powerful I’ve ever been to and I also know it’s nationally renowned. One of the most impactful exhibits that I remember is an interactive map, where you can click on many locations in the United States and read the story of an enslaved person from that county. That visualization taught me a lot, including the fact that my hometown, NYC, was may more impactful in the slave trade than I had previously thought. The Japanese internment camp visualization reminded me of that in a lot of ways, and the fact I was able to get it on my computer at home was incredibly cool. I look forward to the chance to create powerful visualizations myself one day.
